All right, next up, we're going to learn about some strings, so some strings are basically where
you just take some text that a string of text and you ask a method of the string class to return part
of that text instead of the entire string.
OK, so we'll take a look at that now.
So back in our project again, again, we'll just clear out what we had before.
All right, and let's create another string variable.
My text equals.
And I don't know, let's do Apple, at least that's what I'm going to do.
Apple.
OK, now we saw earlier in one of our lessons that we were able to uppercase the first letter of a word.
And I want to review that again with you.
As I've stated before, repetition really can tends to help people to learn better, so we'll repeat
a little bit of that.
All right.
So the way we did that, let's say that we wanted to uppercase just the A in this word, apple.
So let's start off by doing a.
And so you t just to print out what we've already got there my text.
All right.
So that's going to print a lowercase apple right now.
I'm going to make a new line and I'm going to make a new string variable in my new text now to set this
my new text variable.
We're going to base it on the original my text variable, but we're going to uppercase that first character.
And to do that, we're going to use the sub string.
So the way we'll do this is will first reference the my text variable.
Then we're going to use a period and we're going to call the substring method here.
Notice there are actually a couple versions of the sub string method.
There's one that takes just one input.
There's another one that takes two inputs.
The first one's input is the be the beginning index.
And as I stated when we used this before, the index just refers to the numerical place in the string
where you are wanting to start your substring.
OK?
Starting with the number zero, meaning the first character.
All right, so let's let's start with that.
So if I select this first one here, this first method and I put zero in here, and let's just stop
right there.
OK, so and then what I'm going to do, actually, I'll just select this my new text.
I'm going to copy that with a command or control C, and then I'm going to replace this, my text with
that one there, I'm going to do a command v or control V.
OK.
All right.
Now let's run this and see what we end up with.
OK, so this just ran and we just got the whole entire word.
Apple, why did we get that?
Well, the reason we got the entire word Apple is because we told the substring method to begin to give
us a substring of this string apple starting on the first character, which is a but since we didn't
provide a second parameter here to tell it how how many characters of this string we want by default,
it just takes the whole entire string.
And so really, that's not doing anything for us.
It just gave us the whole thing.
So let's see what happens if we were to start on a different number like one, for example.
All right.
So let's run this.
OK, now we got something a little different.
Now it starts with Peli, or rather now it prints peopleThe.
And the reason for that is we're telling it to start on the second index of the Apple string because
zero is the first, zero is the first.
So one would be the second index or the second character.
So the first character is a the second character is this p here.
So it starts inclusively with that p and then it grabs the whole rest of that string to the end.
And so that's what you see here.
So if we wanted only to grab the A.
We would need to change this to zero.
And we would need to supply one more parameter, which would be the length of the substring, OK, the
length.
And so we want a length of one, meaning just grab one character starting on the first character.
OK, so that's what this is saying.
Start on the zero with or the first character, which is this a and only give us?
One character.
So only give us the A. So if we run this now.
There we go.
Now we're just getting the A.
Now, I want to give you one small distinction to make here.
It's an I would say it's mostly an unimportant one, but just to be technically accurate here.
This second parameter technically isn't directly referring to the number of characters we want.
It's actually referring to the index of the character where we want to stop.
So we're basically saying with the zero start on the first character, which is this a here and then
go up to, but not including the second character, because again, we start with the zero, so one
would be the second character.
So the second character is this p here, but don't include the P.
So start on the A and don't include the P.
Now, if that sounds a little confusing to you, that's OK, and that's why you don't really need to
think of it in that way.
It's probably much easier just to think of the second parameter as the length or the number of characters
you want to extend your sub selection out to or your substring out to.
That's probably just a more intuitive way to think about it.
But technically, this number isn't referring to the length.
It's technically referring to the non-inclusive index of the character that you want to go up to.
And again, that's a mouthful, so you can just think of it as the length.
All right.
So we have the A there, so let's revisit what we did in the program a few lessons ago when we took
a string and uppercase it, OK?
And now this is going to allow us to combine a few things that we've already learned now.
So we know how to get this a.
But we want that a to be uppercase.
Right?
So we can uppercase that by simply tacking on.
A period right here and choosing.
The two upper case method.
Right there, right?
So here's the word Apple.
And then here is the lower case, a of Apple, and then all of this would be.
And upper case, a of the word Apple.
Right?
That's what all of this means the upper case, a of the word apple.
But we want more.
We want to print the whole entire word, Apple with the upper case, so now we need the peoplethe to
remain lowercase.
So really, what we want to do is we want to append.
We want to take the uppercase a, which is all of this and then we want to append onto that or concatenate
onto that the lowercase.
Right.
So we learned how to concatenate and we learned several ways.
So we'll we'll do that now.
We'll do the easiest way first.
Well, the simplest way, which is just a plus.
And now we want to concatenate the plea, so this would be a good opportunity for you to pause the video
for a moment and see if you can think of how you can print the word apple with the a capitalized and
I'll give you a moment to figure that out.
And then when you're done, resume the video and we'll see if you got it right.
OK, so the way one of the ways we could do this, because there's several, is we could just do a plus
space.
My text.
Dot.
Substring, I'm going to give myself a little room here and now.
So the substring method is asking, what character do we want to start on or what index do we want to
start on?
Well, we don't want to start on the zero with because that would include the A. We want to start on
the second character, which would be one.
And if we don't specify how many characters we want or the ending index, it will by default take the
whole rest of that string, which is exactly what we want.
So I think we're done right here.
So let's run this now and see what we get.
And there we go.
Apple with a capital A..
OK, now do you remember any of the other ways that you could concatenate these two strings?
What's the maybe the next easiest way that we could concatenate these two strings again?
If you want to go ahead and pause for a moment and see if you can code that up and then come back and
see what I do.
All right.
So what we can do, alternatively, is we can delete that plus, and you could do another period right
here and then use the contact method.
All right.
Now here's the trick.
Currently, the cursor is inside of the parentheses and we need to get.
All of this inside of those parentheses, so you could just select it the way that I just did here,
select all of that don't include the semicolon, though, and then do a command or control X to cut.
Put your cursor inside of the parentheses because that's where the input goes.
And then do a command or control V.
Like that, and personally, I would not like to have that trailing space between the closing parentheses
and the semicolon.
So this should work and we'll run it and make sure.
Yep.
And we still get the same thing again.
Now one thing this might start to look a little scary to some people.
It's starting to look a little bit like you kind of have to really pay attention to it to parse out
what's going on.
So I want to introduce you to a concept that I use extensively myself and that is refactoring so we
can actually break up the parts of this possibly intimidating looking line of code to be a little more
readable.
And there are a lot of ways that we could do this, but one way that comes to my mind would be to take
this part here, which represents the lowercase a and refactor that out into its own variable with a
meaningful name.
Let me show you what I mean by that.
So I've selected all of this, and I'm going to do a command option V for variable.
And then I'm going to name this first.
Part and then I'm going to hit return.
So now I have first part to upper case, do you see what it did there?
It created a new variable called First Part, and then it took all of that and just assigned it to that.
And then it replaced this whole big, scarier looking thing with something a little bit shorter because
now I have this first part.
OK.
And then I could do the same thing over here.
I could select this bit, which is the second part, and I can do the same thing command option V or
control alt v.
And I can call this whatever second part, or I could call it the rest or whatever.
All right.
So that looks a little less intimidating now.
First Part two uppercase concatenate with the second part, and I could even go a little further if
I wanted to.
I could select all of this.
And do another command or command option V and I could do something like
capitalized.
OK, so I could do capitalized contact second part and look at that.
That's a lot less scary looking now.
So you don't need to be shy about breaking things down into bite size bits that are easier for your
brain to comprehend when blocks or lines of code start to look a little too intimidating.
You can always refactor those, and I strongly encourage you to.
The only thing is I encourage that when you do those refactoring.
You take the time to come up with meaningful names for your variable so that you can follow along more
easily in the code.
As to what that's actually doing.
A lot of programmers that I've worked with who I may not think are great programmers, one of their
problems is that I think they are a little impatient when it comes to taking the time to name things
in a meaningful way.
On the one hand, you don't want to take an hour to do it right because you do need to chop, chop,
get it done.
But taking a few moments to just think of a meaningful name and also don't be shy if you come up with
a name and then later on you decide, you know, that's not the best name you can rename it as well.
In fact, I'll just show you that real quick as well.
You can put your cursor on any method name or variable name or class name pretty much anything.
Just put your cursor anywhere there.
And on Mac, you can do a shift F6 to select that whole entire text and then you can rename it.
So I don't know.
I could call this something like.
Capital First Letter.
That's like super explicit, right?
There's like no ambiguity there as to what that represents.
By the way, quick side note.
So I just did a shift F6 on Mac.
And let me also remind myself so shift of six on Windows and Linux, and I'm going to hit Escape two
to get out of that two times on for Mac users.
Your function keys like the F6 may not be set up to work out of the box for you.
You may have had to do a shift function key F6 like hold down on the little button, the little key
that says f n for function and then F6.
And that might be a little hard to do because the f in key may be pretty far away from the F6 key.
So if you want your function keys to work more straightforwardly where you don't have to hold down on
the function button every time you do a function key.
I will add another quick video that will show you how you can go into your system preferences to change
that.
All right.
So what else can we do here?
So we have used the plus symbol and we've used the contact method.
Let's go ahead and use some of the other techniques just as a quick little review.
So again, I'm going to encourage you to pause here.
But let's say this.
Let's say you want to concatenate these two parts with the string builder.
So why don't you pause and see if you can remember how to do that?
And I'll give you a moment and then we'll do it together.
OK, so one way that I might do that might be, let's see here, maybe I'll delete this and then I'm
going to make a new string builder.
Keep in mind, string builder, not string buffer.
They both work pretty much identically, or at least in terms of how you use them, but string builder
is newer and just better.
All right, so string builder.
And by the way, one thing I didn't show in the string builder is that you can start off with a string
that you want to append to in the constructor of the string builder.
So I can pass in this Capital First letter here just like that.
And then I can do a dot append.
Second part.
Dot to string.
Just like that, and let's run that.
Yeah.
OK, so that works.
So that's one way, or I could use the no argh default constructor and do a dart append.
Capital First letter this way.
So.
No ARG default constructor, followed by a data pin for the first part and another data pin for the
second part, and then a two string that works as well.
Also recall that you can format this to be a little more readable if you like.
Just like that, or you could even put the two string on its own line as well.
OK.
So you could you could do that.
Also recall that if you want to be hyper efficient, I'll be honest with you, I probably wouldn't bother
with this for something where I'm only appending two strings, but just for, you know, thoroughness.
Recall that you can also do something where you would say where you tell the string builder beforehand
how many characters this whole entire new text string is going to be.
So you could do something like this length.
Plus second part length.
And now the string builder will be hyper optimized with its use of memory.
Now one more thing I want to show you here.
This is maybe kind of a lot to be sticking inside of this constructor here.
So again, you could refactor this out to be a little more clear as to why you have that there.
So I've selected the Capital First letter, that length plus second part length, and I'm going to do
a command option v again here.
So the idea is suggesting that this new variable could be called capacity, and I will accept that for
right now.
And it got that word capacity because the string builder constructor that takes the capacity setting
here names that parameter as the word capacity.
In fact, here if we just jump in real quick to this constructor.
So this is the actual code.
Well, this is some of the code for that constructor.
Its input is called capacity and intelligence saw that, and it said, well, if they're calling it
capacity, then maybe you want your variable to be called capacity as well.
So that's where that came from.
And of course, I could call this something else.
I could put my cursor here on this word capacity, and it doesn't matter.
I could put it here on this capacity or there on that capacity, and I can do a shift f six to rename
this variable.
And maybe I want to call it total length.
And notice it changed that name in both places.
OK, so it doesn't matter where you put the cursor.
The idea is smart enough to know where to find that, OK.
And obviously we also learned that we could do this with string that format method.
But I'm not going to show that I will leave it to you to play with that.
Or you could go back and review that part of the concatenation VIDEO.
OK, so I think that's going to wrap up our lesson on substring.
Pretty straightforward, and I will see you in the next one.